[Music]
in 1952 Japanese oceanographic research
vessel kayo Maru number five was sent to
investigate the mysterious
disappearances of nine other Japanese
ships in the same notorious location the
dragon's triangle this mission proved to
be unsuccessful as kayo Maru also
vanished with no trace is this story
just a myth or is something strange
happening in the Bermuda Triangle of the
Pacific Ocean
among all sea mysteries involving lost
ships the Bermuda Triangle holds a very
special place it always seemed like this
spot which became the demise of many
ships and planes just stole the show but
did you know that there are about 12
small sea regions with a similarly bad
reputation and sometimes even worse
they're called vile vortices this term
was coined by Scottish biologist Ivan
Sanderson who became the founder of a
society interested in investigating
unexplained mysteries he called 12 vial
vortices a geometric anomaly since all
of them were equally distant from each
other and collectively they resembled a
nearly perfect icosahedron when overlaid
on the world map all these places were
notorious for stories about missing
people and sometimes whole vessels with
their crew Ivan Sanderson couldn't come
up with an explanation for all the
disappearances for a long time even when
he saw a clear pattern this geometrical
shape formed on the globe by bad places
couldn't just be a coincidence and then
he saw that vile vortices often share
one noticeable quality these were the
places were hot and cold air streams or
hot and cold sea currents met each other
according to his idea this kind of
collision could produce electromagnetic
irregularities that are yet to be
scientifically explained of course
Sanderson's claims weren't widely
accepted but one thing still can't be
overlooked as simple superstition those
places are real and they really are
guilty of countless
serious disappearances one of these
spots is so frightening it's actually
strange that it's not widely known as
the Bermuda Triangle it's situated on
the opposite side of the globe from the
Bermuda Triangle close to Tokyo Japan
throughout history it's earned itself
several menacing names like The Devil's
sea Pacific Bermuda Triangle and the
Dragons triangle Japanese people call it
mono Oh me
which means evil sea even though a lot
of places around the Japanese islands
deserve this name the dragon's triangle
remains the most known and feared of
them all due to the lack of research
it's hard to outline precisely where the
dragon's triangle begins and ends but it
supposedly lies in an area of a zoo
Islands south of Tokyo it's there that
seaman from ancient times saw lights in
the water and spontaneous unexplainable
turbulence on the surface of the sea
sometimes giant rogue waves were
emerging seemingly from nowhere and
sometimes vile typhoons would appear in
just a matter of minutes
from clear blue skies in fact that's why
this vile vortex was called the devil's
triangle in the first place
since ancient times local fishermen
believed that there was a sea dragon
that lived on the bottom near the e-z
Islands they thought the Dragons will
could summon typhoons its movements were
releasing huge waves and it's magic
breath was the reason for lights and
giant gas bubbles appearing near the
surface or maybe the dragon just farted
hey who's to say but strangely enough
that wasn't the reason why this place
became so notorious it's even worth
noting that Japanese people
traditionally tend to live in peace with
the supernatural world and Dragons
certainly weren't always considered a
bad thing back then one particular
account credits a dragon as their hero
this story is the beginning of the
alleged supernatural events linked to
the dragon's triangle in the 13th
century Mongolian Khan Kubla the
grandson of Genghis Khan
planned an invasion of the Japanese
islands nine hundred ships full of
soldiers and sailors were sent to cross
the dragon's triangle for this purpose
when they came near the shore one of
those unpredictable typhoons began
suddenly it crumbled most of the Kublai
Khan's shifts and ruined his plans once
and for all even the word kamikaze was
first used there to describe this
typhoon kamikaze means the divine wind
and that's a good testament to how
fearsome this storm was so was it a
dragon spirit protecting his land or
maybe the strange electromagnetic force
of the dragon's triangle it's hard to be
sure but it doesn't look that
supernatural Mongolians were experienced
nomadic warriors excellent with bows
arrows and their mighty steeds but in no
way shape or form were they the best at
sailing
keep in mind that typhoons around Japan
are not rare in general and you'll have
a perfectly explainable natural event
accompanied by the inability of
Mongolian ships to deal with it
but that's only the beginning of the
story of the dragon's triangle most of
its bad reputation was earned in 1974
when a writer and investigator of the
supernatural Charles Berlitz released
his book the Bermuda Triangle
according to Berlitz there were nine
strange disappearances in the 1950s in
the location of the dragon's triangle
all the missing ships were modern
properly equipped Japanese naval vessels
and the weather was good they wouldn't
just vanish without a trace
soon Japanese authorities attempted an
investigation and sent research vessel
kayo Maru number five but it also
vanished and in the same almost ideal
weather conditions if you believe
Charles Berlitz is a count of events
kayo Maru number five had 100 people
that were never seen again after setting
off to the dragon's triangle Japanese
authorities then restricted all further
investigations and labeled the spot a
danger zone but the fact is there were
only 31 people on board kayo Maru number
five Berlitz also claimed that some
missing ships were as massive as
hundred thousand ton tankers and that
disappearances were happening frequently
for thousands of years you know
something fishy is going on when stories
are that exaggerated and to be fair the
most paranormal thing about this story
is how many people believed in it the
only person with enough skepticism to
conduct his own investigation of events
was a modest librarian Larry cush in
1974 he released a book called the
Bermuda Triangle mystery saw in this
book he debunked lots of stories linked
to the Bermuda Triangle
but he didn't forget about Berlitz his
story of the dragon's triangle either he
was persistent in his attempts to
contact Japanese authorities and
newspapers but he failed to find
anything about the dragon's triangle
this area and all its supposed hazards
were almost entirely unknown to Japan
furthermore Koosh was able to figure out
that all nine missing ships had vanished
near the EU islands in the 50s were
small fishing vessels the most
vulnerable ships out there at the time
these ships were poorly equipped and
some of them didn't even have any way to
transmit an SOS signal when ships like
that would say it would seem like they
just vanished but what about the tragic
fate of kayo
Maru number five that ship was surely
prepared for anything and why was it
sent there if nothing strange happened
well first the research ship wasn't
investigating any strange vanishings of
other ships it was on a routine survey
of volcanic activity in the region the
second thing and the most important the
ship was later found and its demise was
due to a sudden volcanic eruption so no
mystery here nothing supernatural it
seems but let's not forget about the
most mysterious thing that exists nature
itself
I didn't overlook all the ancient
evidence about lights in the water and
strange occurrences on the surface they
do have an explanation and the coolest
one at that Japan is based upon
volcanoes all the islands here are the
product of their underground activity
countless little volcanic pores are
scattered along
the bottom of the ocean around Japan
their eruptions would look like flashes
of light coming from the water the water
around would grumble and appear unstable
as if something is moving and roaring in
the depths and more than that eruptions
may disturb vast deposits of methane
hydrate lying on the cold bottom here
it's contained by high pressure and low
temperatures as a solid ice like object
but if this substance goes to the
surface and reaches 64 degrees it
rapidly transforms into a gas state so
from the surface it would look like the
sea itself
swallows whatever's lucky enough to be
in the way of a giant gas bubble coming
up so it's not a dragon fart after all
too bad well call me a superstitious
coward but I would probably say it's a
monster or alien vessel attack if I saw
something like that in person no wonder
people were believing in sea dragons
living in the EU Islands area hmm and I
was beginning to think that kayo Maru
number five was just a shi shi Japanese
fragrance format mm-hmm anyway the story
is a good reminder that there are no
mysteries that we can't solve if we try
have you ever debunked someone's tale
and how did you do it let me know down
in the comments if you learned something
new today then give this video a like
and share it with a friend but hey don't
go missing just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life